Now that we've had some time to
play around with HTTP servers and
did a little bit with headers and
netcat and curl,
can talk a little bit about some other
text based fun protocols like SMTP.
SMTP is used to send emails.
So, for example,
we can send an email on our local SMTP
daemon which on my system is running.
I don't know how common that is on Macs,
but I don't know, give it a shot,
maybe it'll work.
If not, you can just see
how it works on my machine.
So we can send a message
from whoever we want,
because SMTP servers typically have
no validation at all by default.
Although if you try to do this on a real
SMTP server on the public internet,
it's not going to work.
So, it's kind of fun to do on localhost.
So, here I can connect
to localhost port 25.
Email is just a simple
text based protocol.
It actually has a lot of
commonality with HTTP.
So, it has things like status codes, it
has things like in the body of messages,
you have a similar idea to HTTP headers.
It has similar kind of
content mime system.
So I can do, hello localhost.
Let me get back message
that's 200 category message
that means okay,
now I can send email from whoever I want.
So I send one from trump@whitehouse.gov.
Sorry mail from,
not fom trump@whitehouse.gov 250 OK.
So the server seems to be fine with this,
even though just sending
it from netcat locally.
I can send rcpt to substack@localhost.
So this is gonna send me an email locally.
Accepted as well.
Now you can send the data, the body of
the email message with data commands.
And then by default,
you type everything you want to type and
then you hit a period.
You type a period on a single line.
So you hit period, Enter.
And then that's like
the end of the message.
There's other ways of formatting it but
this is the default way.
That's very old.
So by default most email
clients are going to interpret
the first block just
like HTTP is the headers.
So one is called subject.
You can also have things like
different things in there.
So, FAKE NEWS and two new lines
just like HTTP and you're fired.
So there we go, it was sent.
Okay, and we can quit.
And now I have new mail on my system so
I can type the mail command to read it.
Here we go trump@whitehouse.gov.
Get a message, you're fired.
So this is all that it takes to
send a message to an SMTP server.
Although in the real internet,
the servers are very careful to check
what IP address they're actually
receiving the messages from so
that they have some more verification
than just accepting anything blindly.
Which is actually how email used to work
on the public internet back when everyone
was an academic or worked for
the military, I guess.
So just something kind of fun
another text based protocol.
That's, you can type out with netcat
if you ever just want to poke around.